# Web development buzzwords

## Agile

Agile web development essentially refers to a particular way of working, and
you’ll often hear this term in the startup world. In an agile team, web
developers will work according to weekly or biweekly sprints. A sprint usually
consists of five phases: design, develop, test, deploy and review
[more](https://www.hudsonintegrated.com/blog/the-shift-to-agile-web-development).

## Application

An application is basically a type of software that enables the user to perform
different tasks—whether it’s setting an alarm on your smartphone or typing a
document in Microsoft Word. As a developer, you need to be familiar with the
difference between desktop apps, mobile apps and web apps. See also: Web app.

## Backend

Backend development essentially refers to everything that goes on behind the
scenes. What happens at the backend—or server-side—powers what happens at the
frontend, i.e. what the user sees and interacts with. Backend development can be
broken down into four main components of a software stack: the server, the
database, the operating system, and the software.

<!-- Agile deliverables -->

## Backlog

A backlog is a list of user stories organized by priority (must-have,
should-have, could-have), these stories describe the user's experience as they
navigate your website.  
[What is a Backlog](https://www.productplan.com/glossary/backlog/)

## Browser

A web browser is the software used to access the internet and display web pages.
When you type a web address or URL into the browser, you are effectively sending
out a series of requests. The browser will gather all the different elements
that make up that particular webpage, such as images, ads and content, from
wherever they are stored (i.e. different directories or servers) in order to
display the page that you see. The most common browsers include Microsoft
Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Safari for Apple, and Opera.

## Bug

Put simply, a bug is an error that prevents a website or app from running as it
should. In the world of web development, you’ll often deal with bug reports and
be tasked with fixing said bugs.

## Cache

A cache is a temporary storage space for data. When you visit a website, the
files that you request are automatically stored in the cache. If you return to
that same website in the near future, your browser will retrieve the necessary
files from your cache rather than from the original server—so the webpage will
load quicker.

## Code

Code is essentially what web developers write using programming languages.

## CSS

CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets. It is a markup language responsible for
the visual elements of a website. HTML (another markup language) is used to
determine the structure and content of the webpage. Web developers will then use
CSS to style this content; in other words, CSS tells the browser how the HTML
elements should be displayed. CSS is used to apply colors and to determine font,
text size and alignment, to name just a few.

## Debugging

Debugging is the process of identifying and dealing with bugs. Debugging is a
multistep process: the developer locates the problem, isolates the source and
then either gets to work fixing it or comes up with a workaround. The debugging
process ends with testing and, if necessary, further fixes.

## Deployment

Deployment is a key step in the web development process. Once a website or an
app has been developed and tested, it’s ready to go live; in other words, it’s
ready to be deployed. There are several different stages to deploying a website,
with the last being hosting it.

## Documentation

A crucial part of software engineering, documentation is essentially the central
point of reference for anyone involved in managing, maintaining or using a
website or piece of software. Documentation may provide information on
requirements, architecture and design, technical properties, information for the
end user, or marketing.

## Domain name

A website’s domain name is essentially its address on the world wide web. It’s
the address that users type into the browser in order to view a website—such as
“CareerFoundry.com”. Every website can be identified by its IP address (a series
of numbers), and the domain name is just a more user-friendly label for these
numbers. Domains are split into two levels: in the case of CareerFoundry’s
website, the “CareerFoundry” part is the top-level domain, while the “.com” part
is the second level domain.

## Frameworks

Frameworks were invented to make the process of building a website faster and
easier. You can think of a framework as a collection of solutions, tools and
components that you can access in one central location—rather than seeking them
all out separately each time. Some common frameworks include Ruby on Rails,
Bootstrap, AngularJS and Joomla.

## Frontend

The frontend of a website, also known as client-side, is what the end user sees
and interacts with. Frontend languages include HTML, CSS and JavaScript, which
all have a hand in determining the visual output of a website.

## Full-stack

Full-stack developers work across all three layers: the frontend, the backend,
and the database layer.

## Git

An absolute staple in the web development world, Git is a version control system
where developers can store and manage their code. As a web developer, you’ll
make constant changes to your code whenever you’re in the process of creating
something, be it an app or a website. Git enables you to track these changes and
reverse them if necessary, and also to work together with other teams and manage
multiple projects at once.

## GitHub

GitHub is a cloud interface for Git. It has been around since 2008 and now has
over 28 million users worldwide, making it the largest host of source code in
the world! GitHub offers all the version control functionality of Git, but also
offers its own features, such as bug tracking, task management and project
wikis.

## HTML

HTML stands for Hypertext Markup Language. Simply put, it’s a computer language
used to create websites. HTML describes how a document should be displayed by an
internet browser as a webpage. It consists of tags, elements and attributes.

## HTTP

HTTP stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol, and is used to transfer data across
the internet. HTTP sends the data (say, a HTML document or an image) from an
HTTP server program (a web server) to an HTTP client program (a web browser).

## JavaScript

While we’re on the subject of popular programming languages, let’s talk about
JavaScript. JavaScript is primarily used as a client-side language, meaning that
it is embedded into the HTML of a page and sent to the browser. Web developers
use JavaScript to add automation, animations and interactivity to web pages.
